## What does it stand for?
JavaScript Object Notation.

## What is it used for?
It's used for storing and transporting data, like from a server to a web page.

## What is it written in?
JSON is language-independent but can be easily parsed and generated by many programming 
languages, making it widely usable.

## Include a simple example of JSON

    {
    "employees":
    
    {"firstName":"John", "lastName":"Doe"},
    
    {"firstName":"Anna", "lastName":"Smith"},
    
    {"firstName":"Peter", "lastName":"Jones"}
    ]
    }

## Advantages of using it?
it is easy to read and write, as well as being a lightweight format.

## What data types can it store/use?
String: A sequence of characters enclosed in double quotes (e.g., "example").

Number: Numeric values (e.g., 42, 3.14).

Object: A collection of key/value pairs (e.g., {"key": "value"}).

Array: An ordered list of values (e.g., ["value1", "value2"]).

Boolean: Represents true or false values (true, false).

Null: Represents a null value (null).

## What is the JSON syntax for:
Representing structured data based on JavaScript object syntax.

## Name value pairs?
A name-value pair is represented as `"key": "value".`

## Objects?
Objects are defined by curly brackets and contain one or more name name-value pairs.
Shown in the example under simple example of JSON.

## How to separate data (key/value pairs) from one another?
They are seperated by commas.

## JSON arrays (these are like lists in python)?
Defined by square brackets and can hold multiple values of different data types.

## Encoding vs Serialising
**Encoding** is the process of converting data into a specific format for transmission
or storage, like converting a string to UTF-8.
- Focused on data representation, making sure data can be read by different systems.
- Unreadable to humans.

**Serialising** is the process of converting an object or data structure into a format
that can be easily stored or transmitted, like converting an object to JSON.
- It focuses on representation and preservation of structure and data type. 
- Readable to humans.